Kate Acuff, now in her second term, was first elected to the Albemarle County Public School Board in November of 2013, representing the Jack Jouett Magisterial District. She was selected by the Board as its Vice Chair in 2015 and as Chair for the next three years.
 
Dr. Acuff brings a broad range of professional experience in law, public health, science and policy in the private, public and non-profit sectors to her service on the Board. She has been a Board member of the University of Virginia Physicians Group (including two years as its Chair) and currently is President of the Board for Partner for Mental Health (formerly, Mental Health America-Charlottesville/Albemarle), a non-profit organization that provides mental health support to persons in the local community.
Prior to her tenure on the School Board, Dr. Acuff practiced law in Colorado and Washington, DC, served as legal counsel to the District of Columbia’s Medical Assistance Administration, was Vice President of Policy and Education with the National Public Health and Hospitals Institute in Washington, DC, was an Adjunct Assistant Professor in Emory University’s School of Public Health and a consultant to The Carter Center’s Mental Health Program in Atlanta.
Upon moving to Charlottesville in 2007, Dr. Acuff served as a consultant to the Chair of the Virginia Supreme Court’s Commission on Mental Health Law Reform and also, with the Community Mental Health and Wellness Coalition in Charlottesville.
Dr. Acuff is a strong advocate for providing schools with safe and healthy learning environments. In 2016 as School Board Chair, she led a public information campaign for the first school bond referendum in 40 years. The referendum, which provided funds to reduce overcrowding in schools and to modernize older school buildings, was overwhelmingly approved by voters.
Other of her priorities include expanding of teacher professional development programs and more competitive teacher compensation, an increase in full-time nurses in elementary schools, additional funding for student mental health services, closing the opportunity gap among students in the division’s 25 schools and a more collaborative working relationship between the School Board and the Board of Supervisors.
Dr. Acuff received her M.S. in Microbiology & Immunology from the University of Colorado, her J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center, and her Ph.D. and M.P.H. in Public Health and Public Policy and Management from Johns Hopkins School of Public Health.