Judy Le, the newly-elected representative on the Albemarle County School Board from the Rivanna Magisterial District, knocked on more than 1,000 doors during her campaign but there was one knock she will never forget. Opening the door was a kindergarten teacher who spoke with unbridled enthusiasm and passion about her work with children. Le described that conversation as a moving experience and a powerful statement about the positive difference education can make in the lives of all children.

It reminded her of her experiences as the young child of two Vietnamese immigrants who were English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) teachers themselves. “My parents instilled in me and my siblings how important public education and hard work would be to our success as adults and that certainly became true," she remembers.

A journalist by trade, Le studied at one of the nation's top-ranked communications schools, Northwestern University. Her early career experiences working for newspapers including the state's largest, the Virginian-Pilot, taught her a great deal about understanding the challenges faced by many communities. She sharpened her skill for empathy and for the value of keeping people informed about issues important to their life. Those experiences and the early childhood advice she received from her parents led to her interest in serving her community on the school board.

At the top of her priority list is providing equal educational opportunities to all public school students in the county. “It's incredibly important to our future together," she says, and she adds, “it's the key to truly reducing the achievement gap. These are the accomplishments, she adds that will empower all students to reach their highest academic and professional potential.

Also high on her priority list will be the ideas offered by her constituents. She learned during her campaign that the best strategy for understanding and connecting with those she will be serving is to listen intently to their ideas, concerns and suggestions for the future. Among those she will be representing on the School Board is her own child, one of the division's elementary school students.