For Ellen Osborne, newly-elected to represent the Scottsville Magisterial District on the Albemarle County School Board, public service has been a lifelong professional commitment. Currently the Executive Director of Literacy Volunteers of Charlottesville/Albemarle, she leads an organization that closely works with more than 400 adults each year to improve their reading, writing and English language skills. Its mission statement notes that “ the ability to read, write, and communicate is critical to adults to fully realize their potential as individuals, parents, and citizens."

Osborne also serves on the Virginia Department of Education's Adult Education and Literacy Advisory Committee. The committee includes representatives from state colleges and universities, the private sector and the General Assembly. The committee makes recommendations to the state Board of Education on how to enhance the quality and effectiveness of adult education and literacy programs and services throughout Virginia.

That's a close fit with the strategic goal of the Albemarle County Public Schools division, which is to ensure that every student graduates “having actively mastered the lifelong-learning skills they need to succeed as 21st century learners, workers and citizens."

“Fostering lifelong learning," she says, “is among the most valuable of gifts from our public schools.  As a proud parent of two members of the Monticello High School Class of 2020, Osborne points out she “has a personal appreciation of how important this gift is to children and their future," she said.

It's also one of a number of priorities for Osborne as she begins her four-year term on the School Board.

“Our division has begun to make some progress in narrowing the achievement gap. We need to increase the rate of our progress and that includes continuing to expand the diversity of our teaching core. I also would like to see as wide a range as possible of course selections in career and technical education," Osborne said.

An important component of her public service is opening her door wide to community input as the school division makes decisions about budget, the learning environments offered to students and its connections to parents and community partners.

An East Carolina undergrad, Osborne received a Master's Degree in Fine Arts from Louisiana State as well as a Master's Degree in Non-Profit Studies from the University of Richmond.