I'm Judy Lee.
I am the representative from the Rivanna Magisterial District, and I'm on the Communications Committee, the PREP Board, and the Diversity Advisory Committee.

Starting in the summer of 2017, I was doing a lot of protests. I was on the ground at A12 and various other protests around that, and I didn't find that it was doing what I wanted it to do. I really wanted to work for racial equity.

When I saw some of the things going on in the schools, I realized that that would be a great place to make a difference. And so I learned a lot about school boards quickly, and I ran in 2019.

What I find here is that we have a whole board that is really committed to equity. I think the division is committed as well, and I think that we can make a lot of great progress in racial equity.

You know, the anti-racism policy that's right here behind me was an important part of that, and I think we're continuing to move in that direction. I'm really inspired by that.

To me, educational equity is the most important thing because we've lost, through inequity, so much talent. We've lost so much potential for people in the community because we have not given everyone the opportunity to achieve to their potential.

So to me, it's an urgent matter because of the hundreds of years that the education system has been inequitable—and it continues to be.

To me, it's something that we need to be fighting for every day, now until we achieve it. Obviously, equity is a huge thing for me.

What I've come to find is that early literacy is a really important part of equitable outcomes. Starting young is very important, so that's a really important issue for me moving forward.

One thing that we really tried to do during COVID—and I think we really achieved it because we had a lot more people involved in the school board meetings—was to get a lot more public engagement, to hear from a lot more people, and to reach out to people.

We did school board forums, we did town halls where we heard from people. It's incredibly important to me to hear from people because each perspective is extremely limited—right? I mean, that's just the thing.

Hearing from perspectives that I didn't have before is really valuable. It's a gift when people share with me their experiences, and then I can understand a little bit more about how I can truly represent people.

I think that truly representative part of government is sometimes what's missing, and at this level—the school board level—it's really important.

I think one thing that I really learned this year is how important it was—and helpful it was—for me to have a child in the system.

I've always sort of understood that to be important. It's always been a very important part of my life—obviously, being a parent is very important to me.

But when I was making decisions, it became vital and urgent, because I understood what some other parents were feeling.

Now, obviously, I have one child. We have 14,000 in the system. Obviously, everyone is unique and every situation is different, but it just was very—I could feel it in my gut when I was voting—how it would affect children, how it would affect parents.

Knowing his teachers, knowing the people at his school—it became clear to me how important it is to have that experience. I'm really glad that I did.

Another part of that was having COVID this year and understanding that it's not always the narrative that you see.

So all of those personal experiences, I think, are really important to making those decisions.